The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lincoln Country in Pictures, by 
Carl Frazier and Rosalie Frazier

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Lincoln Country in Pictures

Author: Carl Frazier
        Rosalie Frazier

Release Date: December 20, 2017 [EBook #56210]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LINCOLN COUNTRY IN PICTURES ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






                       The Isaac Golliher house.

  [Illustration: Split-rail fence.]




                             _The_ LINCOLN
                                COUNTRY
                             _in Pictures_


                      By CARL and ROSALIE FRAZIER

  [Illustration: Ox-drawn wagon.]

             HASTINGS HOUSE    _Publishers_    New York 22

  [Illustration: The story of Abraham Lincoln is ever fresh. It appeals
  to the imagination and grips the vision of many people in various
  ways. Perhaps that is why millions of visitors make pilgrimages to the
  humble abodes in which he lived and the places he frequented.
                       _Photograph Courtesy Chicago Historical Society._]

  [Illustration: “Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition.
  Whether it be true or not, I can say for one that I have no other so
  great as that of being truly esteemed by my fellow men, rendering
  myself worthy of their esteem. How far I shall succeed in gratifying
  this ambition, is yet to be developed.”
                           —_Address to Sangamon County, March 9, 1832._]

             Copyright © 1963, by Carl and Rosalie Frazier

      All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced
              without written permission of the publisher.

                   Published simultaneously in Canada
           by S. J. Reginald Saunders, Publishers, Toronto 2B

           Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 63-19173

               _Printed in the United States of America_




                                FOREWORD


We know it is no longer possible to add anything new to the written word
about Lincoln. The hundreds of historians who have attempted to write
the life of the Great Emancipator have covered every facet of it.
Therefore, we have chosen to present our story of a by-gone day in a
series of camera impressions, hoping to arouse in our readers an
emotional sense of “present being.”

We have done this for two reasons: first, because Lincoln’s early
frontier has achieved a factual and imaginative rebirth through loving
care and painstaking efforts after having fallen into ruin for many
years. Secondly, we believe as many historians do, that America owes
much of the credit for its national character and institutions to the
atmosphere of the early frontier. It was the appreciation of the role it
played on the character of Lincoln that brought about the restoration of
New Salem, Illinois, and those objects which were so closely associated
with him. These objects are of special interest because it was among
them that he moved slowly forward through a cycle of failures and
successes before reaching the high place which destiny had reserved for
him. No man in American history has started with so little and achieved
so much.

With a certain temerity then, we present our pictorial history of the
environment in which Lincoln spent the most formative years of his life.
It was from this frontier atmosphere and these frontier people that
Lincoln acquired his uncanny understanding of how common folk think and
the wisdom that enabled him to hold in his hands the ties that bound a
people and made a nation.




                _A Brief Chronology of Abraham Lincoln_


  Feb. 12, 1809    Born on Sinking Spring Farm near Hodgenville, Kentucky.
  1811 to 1816     The family, which included Abe’s sister, Sarah, lived
                   on Knob Creek near Hodgenville, Kentucky.
  Nov. 1816        The family moved to Pigeon Creek in Indiana.
  Oct. 5, 1818     Abe’s mother died of “milk sickness.”
  Dec. 2, 1819     Thomas Lincoln married Sarah Bush Johnston, a widow
                   with three children, from Elizabethtown, Kentucky.
  Jan. 20, 1828    Sister Sarah died.
  Mar. 1830        The Lincoln family moved from Indiana to Illinois.
  Apr. 19, 1831    Offut’s flatboat piloted by Lincoln got stuck on the
                   dam at New Salem, Illinois.
  Mar. 9, 1832     Announced candidacy for the Illinois Legislature.
  May 8, 1832      Mustered into U.S. Army for service in Black Hawk War.
  July 16, 1832    Mustered out of military service.
  Aug. 6, 1832     Defeated for the Legislature.
  May 7, 1833      Appointed postmaster at New Salem, Illinois.
  Aug. 4, 1834     Elected to the Legislature.
  Mar. 24, 1836    Sworn in as a lawyer of the Circuit Court of Sangamon
                   County.
  Aug. 1, 1836     Reelected to the Legislature for a second term.
  Sept. 9, 1836    Licensed to practice law.
  Mar. 1, 1837     Admitted to the bar in Illinois.
  Mar. 15, 1837    Moved from New Salem to Springfield, Illinois.
  Aug. 1, 1838     Reelected to the Legislature for a third term.
  Dec. 3, 1839     Admitted to practice law in the Circuit Court of the
                   United States.
  Aug. 1, 1840     Reelected to the Legislature for a fourth term.
  Nov. 4, 1842     Married Mary Todd of Lexington, Kentucky.
  Aug. 1, 1843     First child, Robert Todd Lincoln, was born.
  Jan. 7, 1844     Bought home in Springfield.
  Mar. 10, 1846    Second child, Edward Baker Lincoln, was born.
  Aug. 3, 1846     Elected to Congress.
  Dec. 6, 1847     Took seat in Congress.
  Mar. 7, 1849     Admitted to practice law before United States Supreme
                   Court.
  Feb. 1, 1850     Second child, Edward Baker Lincoln, died.
  Dec. 21, 1850    Third child, William Wallace Lincoln, was born.
  Jan. 17, 1851    Lincoln’s father, Thomas, died.
  Apr. 4, 1853     Fourth child, Thomas “Tad” Lincoln, was born.
  June 16, 1858    Delivered “house divided” speech at Springfield.
  Aug. 21, 1858    First debate, with Stephen A. Douglas at Ottawa,
                   Illinois.
  Aug. 27, 1858    Second debate, at Freeport, Illinois.
  Sept. 15, 1858   Third debate, at Jonesboro, Illinois.
  Sept. 18, 1858   Fourth debate, at Charleston, Illinois.
  Oct. 7, 1858     Fifth debate, at Galesburg, Illinois.
  Oct. 13, 1858    Sixth debate, at Quincy, Illinois.
  Oct. 15, 1858    Seventh and last debate, at Alton, Illinois.
  Nov. 2, 1858     Defeated by Douglas for the United States Senate.
  Nov. 5, 1858     First mentioned in press for President.
  May 18, 1860     Nominated for the Presidency.
  Nov. 6, 1860     Elected President.
  Jan. 31, 1861    Visited for the last time with his stepmother.
  Mar. 4, 1861     Inaugurated as President.
  Nov. 8, 1864     Reelected as President.
  Mar. 4, 1865     Reinaugurated as President.
  Apr. 14, 1865    Shot by Booth.
  Apr. 15, 1865    Died in Washington.
  May 4, 1865      Buried in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Illinois.

  [Illustration: It was from the faithful Sinking Spring, near
  Hodgenville, Kentucky, that the farm of Lincoln’s nativity got its
  name.]

  [Illustration: The branches of the Boundary Oak, a landmark for early
  frontiersmen, still shelter the hallowed birthplace of the man who
  went to school for perhaps a year, split rails in frontier clearings,
  traveled the Eighth Circuit as a lawyer, became President of the
  United States, freed the slaves, spoke the First and Second Inaugurals
  and the Gettysburg Address.]

  [Illustration: On February 12, 1809, a blizzard raged at Sinking
  Spring Farm, near Hodgenville, Kentucky. The wind howled down the
  chimney and through the cracks of the humble log cabin in which
  Abraham Lincoln was born to Thomas and Nancy Lincoln. The proud
  parents named the boy Abraham after his grandfather.]

  [Illustration: When Abe was two years old, his father moved the family
  to Knob Creek Farm where they lived until Abe was seven. The cabin lay
  nestled in a valley surrounded by rolling hills and deep gorges. Here
  Abe played with his friend, Austin Gollaher, gathered firewood from
  the forest, wild berries from the vales, and for a short time attended
  Mrs. Hodgen’s “blab” school. Thomas Lincoln decided to move his family
  across the Ohio River to live on Pigeon Creek in Indiana where the
  soil was richer and there were no slaves.]

  [Illustration: The Lincoln’s erected a new log cabin on Pigeon Creek
  in Indiana. For the next fourteen years they struggled with the almost
  impossible odds of a bitter and treacherous wilderness. It was here
  that Abe’s mother died, and he helped his father lay her to rest in
  the forest.]

  [Illustration: In the little Log Schoolhouse near Pigeon Creek, in
  Indiana, Abe managed to get a few scattered weeks of sporadic
  schooling in readin’ writin’ and cipherin’ to the rule of three.]

  [Illustration: Abe did his homework by the light of the smouldering
  fireplace. He would scrape his charcoal cipherin’ from wooden boards
  so as to use them over and over again.]

  [Illustration: The Lincoln family often attended services in the
  little Baptist Church that Abe helped his father to build, near Pigeon
  Creek, in Indiana.]

  [Illustration: This was the home of Josiah Crawford, a neighboring
  farmer, where Abe alternated working and learning. Mr. Crawford had
  several books which he lent Abe. When plowing, Abe read at the end of
  each furrow while he stopped to allow his horse to “breathe.”]

  [Illustration: In Gentryville, not far from Pigeon Creek, Mr. Gentry,
  a farmer and storekeeper lived in this two-story log mansion. At
  times, when his father didn’t need his help, Abe worked in Mr.
  Gentry’s store and on the farm. He helped Allen, Mr. Gentry’s son,
  build a flatboat, load it with store produce and float it down the
  Ohio and Mississippi rivers to New Orleans.]

  [Illustration: It was early spring of 1830 when the Lincoln’s made the
  long dismal journey from Indiana to the promising prairies of
  Illinois. Their stout wagons were piled high with rough-hewn
  furniture, feather beds, personal belongings, iron pots and pans.
  There were plows for breaking the “prairie’s sleeping sod” and tools
  for building a new log cabin.]

  [Illustration: This rustic abode was the last home of Thomas and Sarah
  Lincoln. Abe, who was now past twenty-one, had left his parents to
  seek his fortune on the bustling Illinois frontier.]

  [Illustration: Timber lined the river’s banks and crowned the rolling
  hills.]

  [Illustration: Historical marker.]


                               NEW SALEM

In the fall of 1828, James Rutledge and John Camron erected homes on
this hill. The following year they built a grist and sawmill on the
Sangamon River just below the hill, laid out the town of New Salem and
began to sell lots. The mill became so popular that the town grew
rapidly and flourished for several years although it never included more
than one hundred inhabitants. With the founding and growth of
Petersburg, two miles to the north and more accessibly located, its
decline began. When the seat of the new County of Menard was located at
Petersburg in 1839, New Salem quickly passed out of existence.

Abraham Lincoln resided at New Salem from the summer of 1831 until the
spring of 1837, supporting himself successively as clerk and mill hand,
soldier in the Black Hawk War, storekeeper, postmaster and deputy
surveyor. In 1832 he entered politics. Although defeated in his first
campaign for the Legislature, he was elected a member of the House of
Representatives in 1834 and again in 1836. Throughout his residence at
New Salem, Lincoln strove to perfect his education, studying grammar,
mathematics, and finally law. Upon his admission to the bar in March
1837, he sought greater opportunities than New Salem offered, and so
removed to Springfield.

  [Illustration: It was on a pleasant April day that the flat-bottomed
  boat, loaded with barrel pork, corn and live pigs, and piloted by
  young Abe Lincoln, rounded a bend in the Sangamon River and came to
  rest on top of the miller’s dam that stretched out across the river.
  The bow of the boat was raised high into the air. The squeals of the
  frightened pigs brought the citizens of New Salem hurrying down the
  bluff to the river bank.

  This was Lincoln’s introduction to the people of New Salem. Denton
  Offut, a swaggering, boastful, hard-drinking frontiersman, was owner
  of the boat. He became so impressed with the thriving little village
  that he decided to return after the voyage to New Orleans, and open a
  store with Lincoln as his clerk. The new store was opened the
  following September.]

  [Illustration: Lincoln helped fell the trees from which Offut’s
  one-room log store was erected. It stands on the bluff that leads down
  to the grist mill and the river bank. It was the usual type of
  frontier store, stocked with produce from the prairie farms or objects
  made at home.

  It was while working for Offut that Lincoln decided to improve his
  education. In fair weather, when there were no customers about,
  Lincoln could be seen lounging on the porch studying or talking with
  friends about slavery, crops, politics, cockfighting, horse racing or
  just telling stories to listening loafers.]

  [Illustration: At the top of the bluff, among the tall oak trees,
  stood the cabin of Rowen Herndon. Lincoln boarded here because it was
  near the store.]

  [Illustration: Bill Cleary’s saloon stood a short distance down the
  bluff from Offut’s store. It was the hangout for Jack Armstrong, who
  challenged Lincoln to a wrestling match. Even though the match ended
  in a draw, it gave Lincoln the reputation for courage and strength
  that convinced his associates that he “belonged.”]

  [Illustration: New Salem was a trading post for the farmers who
  cultivated farms on the surrounding prairies. On Main Street there was
  a cobbler, a hatter, a cooper, a blacksmith and wagon builder, a
  wheelwright and several merchants.

  These tradesmen had come to New Salem to help fill the needs felt by
  everyone. At the height of its prosperity, New Salem had a population
  of a hundred citizens and some twenty-five or thirty buildings.]

  [Illustration: The buildings were made of logs, notched together at
  the corners and chinked with native clay.]

  [Illustration: Roofs were pitched and covered with clapboard shingles
  called “shakes.”]

  [Illustration: Better homes in New Salem had chimneys made of stone.]

  [Illustration: Most homes had “cat and clay” chimneys, made of logs
  and chinked with native clay. On cold windy days members of the
  household were kept busy running outside to see whether or not the
  chimney had caught fire.]

  [Illustration: New Salem homes had window panes made of glass.]

  [Illustration: Windows were usually near the fireplace where family
  activity was carried on.]

  [Illustration: Over an open fire, in iron pots, frying pans and
  skillets, housewives cooked venison stew, roasted pork and wild game,
  fried mush, baked corn bread and corn dodgers to a golden brown and
  often hard enough “to split a board or fell a deer at forty feet.”]

  [Illustration: Sturdy trestle tables served the pioneer family well.]

  [Illustration: Pioneer women were especially proud of their chinaware.]

  [Illustration: A Seth Thomas clock adorned the mantles of those who
  were able to afford a touch of elegance.]

  [Illustration: Housewives spun the wool from which they made garments
  often stiff and too large, but suitable as garments to protect the
  family from the elements.]

  [Illustration: Beds were dressed with home-woven coverlets.]

  [Illustration: Babies came in annual crops.]

  [Illustration: Of the humble one-room log house the cooper’s son
  wrote: “At meal time it was all kitchen. On rainy days, when neighbors
  came to relate their exploits, how many deer and wild turkey they had
  killed, it was all sitting room. On Sunday, when the young men all
  dressed up in their jeans, and the young ladies, in their best bow
  dresses, it was all parlor. At night it was all bedroom.”]

  [Illustration: Outside, wood stacked high during the summer, dwindled
  rapidly as the winter passed.]

  [Illustration: From the ash hoppers, found in every backyard, lye was
  leeched for use in making soap.]

  [Illustration: Wells with windlass ropes and wooden buckets supplied
  the household with needed water.]

  [Illustration: Rain barrels caught the “soft” water that dripped from
  the eaves. This water was used for the family washing.]

  [Illustration: Samuel Hill, New Salem’s most prosperous businessman,
  owned the only four-room, two-story house in the village.]

  [Illustration: The opulence reflected in the Hill residence was not
  common to the homes of New Salem.]

  [Illustration: Samuel Hill was also owner of the woolhouse and carding
  machine. In spring, during wool shearing time, farmers brought their
  wool to the warehouse in sacks, old bed quilts and petticoats, pinned
  with thorns from the honey locust.]

  [Illustration: The carding machine in action was New Salem’s most
  dramatic attraction. From dawn until darkness the weary treading of
  oxen hoofs on the cleated treadmill powered the squeaking, moaning,
  wooden gears of the carding machine.]

  [Illustration: Samuel Hill and John McNeal owned the most successful
  store in New Salem. It was the center of village life. Under its
  protective porch people gathered to argue the questions of temperance,
  travel and human slavery.]

  [Illustration: Doctor John Allen lived across the road from the
  Hill-McNeal store. Unconvinced of the virtue of quinine for treating
  malaria fever, the doctor kept to such old remedies as Peruvian bark,
  jalop, calomel and boneset tea.]

  [Illustration: Peter Lukin, the cobbler, lived next door to Doctor
  Allen. The cobbler shop was in the small lean-to. As winter approached
  the cobbler converted piles of animal hides into shoes for the
  community.]

  [Illustration: Residence and office of Doctor Francis Regnier, Allen’s
  capable colleague, who purged, bled, blistered, puked, and salivated
  his patients.]

  [Illustration: The Doctor’s medical laboratory and reference library.]

  [Illustration: This was the home and workshop of Martin Waddell, the
  village hatter. He made hats from opossum, raccoon and rabbit skins. A
  rabbitskin hat cost fifty cents. A hat made from an opossum or raccoon
  skin, with the tail hanging down in the back, cost two dollars.]

  [Illustration: In this kettle Waddell prepared the skins from which he
  made the hats.]

  [Illustration: Residence of Isaac Burner. Very little is known about
  the Burner family.]

  [Illustration: A familiar sight on Main Street, New Salem.]

  [Illustration: In the small lean-to in the rear of his cabin, Robert
  Johnson, the wheelwright and cabinetmaker, painstakingly made spinning
  wheels, wagon wheels, looms, and sturdy furniture for the community.]

  [Illustration: Residence of Isaac Golliher, who had the only root
  cellar in the village.]

  [Illustration: For three years Lincoln was postmaster at New Salem. In
  this position he became well-acquainted with people for miles around.
  It was here he began his lifelong habit of reading newspapers, through
  which, in part, he learned to interpret public opinion. To supplement
  his earnings as postmaster he did odd jobs, such as clerking in Hill’s
  store, helping out at the mill or splitting rails.]

  [Illustration: This was the home of Alexander Trent. When Lincoln
  became postmaster he was required to furnish bond of five hundred
  dollars. Alexander Trent was one of his bondsmen.]

  [Illustration: Henry Onstat’s cabin and the cooperage where he made
  barrels so much in demand by the community of New Salem.]

  [Illustration: The cooperage was a busy place. There was always a
  great pile of shavings in the fireplace. Lincoln often came to the
  cooperage at night and by the glow of the burning shavings he studied
  mathematics, literature and law.]

  [Illustration: Across the road from the cooperage stood the double
  cabin of Jack Kelso, philosopher and fisherman, and his
  brother-in-law, Joshua Miller, the powerful village blacksmith.]

  [Illustration: Lincoln was a frequent visitor to the Kelso cabin; he
  and Jack often sat around the table and by the cheerful glow of the
  fireplace, read and discussed Shakespeare, Blackstone and Burns. It
  was Jack Kelso who introduced Lincoln to the classics of literature.]

  [Illustration: Joshua Miller’s blacksmith shop was the busiest place
  in town. The ring of his anvil was heard from morning until night
  throughout the village as he shaped metal into oxen shoes, horseshoes
  and farm implements.]

  [Illustration: Lincoln, seeking an occupation that would afford him a
  better living than odd jobs, considered becoming a blacksmith. For a
  time his strong arms grappled with the chore, but he preferred lighter
  work which allowed him more time for studying. He also had thoughts of
  becoming a merchant.]

  [Illustration: The limbs of the great oak tree still cast their
  shadows across the Lincoln-Berry store. In fair weather, when
  housewives were busy and sales were restricted to an occasional pound
  of sugar or a piece of beeswax, Lincoln, barefoot, lay stretched out
  under the oak tree, lost in a book.]

  [Illustration: The Rutledge Tavern, where Lincoln courted Ann
  Rutledge, stood across the road from the Lincoln-Berry store. While
  waiting on a customer, or studying under the oak tree, he often paused
  to watch her as she moved about the yard of the tavern.]

  [Illustration: A burning candle in the tavern window welcomed whatever
  wayfarer might be seeking food and lodging.]

  [Illustration: The tavern was a pleasant and comfortable place. Every
  day brought new guests to the dining room. For a time Lincoln lived at
  the tavern; his wit and tall tales often made him the center of
  interest.]

  [Illustration: While residing at the tavern, Lincoln climbed the rungs
  of a well-worn ladder to the loft, where he shared a bed with E. Y.
  Ellis, who says that Lincoln’s wit and stories often kept the other
  male guests in an uproar until late at night.]

  [Illustration: The west room of the tavern accommodated the Rutledge
  family and now and then an overnight lady guest.]

  [Illustration: On Sunday evenings the Rutledge family and friends
  gathered before the fireplace to listen to a sermon and to sing hymns.
  Lincoln stood near Ann and turned the pages of her _Missouri Harmony
  Song Book_.]

  [Illustration: The betrothal of Ann Rutledge and Lincoln ended with
  her untimely death. Ann’s brother said: “The effect upon Mr. Lincoln’s
  mind was terrible. He became plunged in despair, and many of his
  friends feared reason would desert her throne. His extraordinary
  emotions were regarded as strong evidence of the existence of the
  tenderest relations between himself and the deceased.”]

  [Illustration: Lincoln, the ardent student, could be found pursuing
  his studies in the most unusual places. Squire Godbey, seeing him
  stretched out on a pile of wood, inquired: “What are you reading Abe?”
  Lincoln replied: “I am not reading. I am studying Law.” “Law? Good God
  A’mighty!” exclaimed the surprised squire as he walked away.]

  [Illustration: The little subscription schoolhouse stands a half mile
  south of the village near Purkapile “crick.” Schoolmaster Mentor
  Graham was a constant stimulus to Lincoln and always ready to help and
  encourage him. After the day’s routine had ended Lincoln often came to
  the school so that the master might evaluate his progress.]

  [Illustration: In 1834, Lincoln’s quest for knowledge and esteem was
  rewarded. The citizens of Sangamon County sent the novice lawmaker to
  the State Capitol at Vandalia, to take his seat in the Ninth General
  Assembly of the Legislature of Illinois.]

  [Illustration: In the Assembly, Lincoln said little, but observed
  closely and learned much. He was among men of affairs, education and
  political experience. He became floor leader of the Whigs and an
  esteemed member of a political group known as the “Long Nine” who were
  successful in having the State Capitol moved from Vandalia to
  Springfield.]

  [Illustration: In March of 1837, after having been admitted to the bar
  in Illinois, Lincoln moved from New Salem to Springfield. For the next
  twenty-five years the first State Capitol Building in Springfield
  became the center of his many activities.]

  [Illustration: The Postville Courthouse was on the “Old Eighth
  Circuit.” In Lincoln’s day judges and lawyers rode horseback from one
  county courthouse to another, so as to make a living by representing
  the litigants in the suits to be heard. This was known as “riding the
  circuit.”]

  [Illustration: The Mount Pulaski Courthouse hasn’t changed much since
  Lincoln practiced law here more than a hundred years ago.]

  [Illustration: In the court and jury room Lincoln argued cases before
  such distinguished judges as David Davis, who became a Justice of the
  United States Supreme Court.]

  [Illustration: During those inevitable moments of disturbance when the
  courtroom became unruly, Judge Davis would sound this gavel calling
  for order in the court.]

  [Illustration: The Metamora Courthouse, dating from 1845, retains the
  atmosphere of those rugged days when Lincoln and his colleagues came
  here to plead for justice before the bar.]

  [Illustration: At Metamora, Lincoln sat at this table. The “skirt” was
  cut away to accommodate his long legs.]

  [Illustration: The well-worn courthouse doorstep is evidence of one
  court room visitor’s observations: “Court week is a general holiday.
  Not only suitors, jurors and witnesses, but all who can spare the time
  brush up their coats and brush down their horses to go to court.”]

  [Illustration: An atmosphere of exultation pervaded the Metamora
  courtroom when Lincoln was present. He was the most popular of all the
  barristers who traveled the Eighth Circuit.]

  [Illustration: The Old Cass County Courthouse in Beadstown, Illinois,
  was the scene of the “Duff” Armstrong murder trial in which Lincoln
  defended the son of “Aunt Hanna” Armstrong, who had befriended him
  when he lived in New Salem. During the trial Lincoln proved, by
  referring to an almanac, that the moon was not shining brightly at the
  time of the murder. It is said that tears stood in Lincoln’s eyes as
  he pleaded for the boy’s life and that the hardened pioneer jurymen
  wept with him. Young Armstrong was acquitted.]

  [Illustration: The courtroom.]

  [Illustration: On the evening of July 29, 1858, Lincoln, Republican
  Candidate for the United States Senate and the incumbent Democratic
  Senator, Stephen A. Douglas, were guests at the Bryant Home. It was
  here that the two politicians agreed to their seven debates.]

  [Illustration: Lincoln occupied the chair below during the evening’s
  discussion.]

  [Illustration: On this table Douglas wrote a letter to Lincoln
  confirming the schedule for seven debates.]

  [Illustration: This memorial to the Lincoln-Douglas debates, at
  Quincy, Illinois, stands as a symbol of Lincoln’s moral and spiritual
  convictions. They enabled him to match wits with Stephen A. Douglas,
  who was blind to the evils of slavery and deaf and dumb to those who
  expressed a desire to abolish it.]

  [Illustration: Lincoln had crossed the threshold of his greatest
  ambition when he and his family became frequent visitors to the
  Governor’s Mansion, where they mingled with the elite both politically
  and socially. Lincoln’s name had been mentioned in the press as a
  possible candidate for the Presidency.]

  [Illustration: “The Rail Splitter.” Lincoln acquired this nickname
  during the 1860 convention in Chicago, where he became known as “The
  Rail Splitter” candidate for President of the United States.]

  [Illustration: It was to this house, Lincoln’s Springfield residence,
  that the appointed committee came on May 19, 1860 to notify “The Rail
  Splitter” candidate of his nomination for the Presidency.]

  [Illustration: One of the committeemen rang the front doorbell, which
  has announced visitors to the Lincoln house for more than a hundred
  years.]

  [Illustration: “The Rail Splitter” himself opened the front door and
  welcomed the committee into the entrance hall, where both the humble
  and the great had always been welcome visitors.]

  [Illustration: It was in the north parlor that the committee
  spokesman, George Ashmun, delivered to Lincoln the letter which
  confirmed his nomination, a copy of the Republican platform and a
  short congratulatory speech. “The Rail Splitter” candidate stood tall
  and dignified, a grave expression on his rugged countenance.]

  [Illustration: The committee was introduced to Mrs. Lincoln in the
  south parlor, where she served refreshments and water. Later “The Rail
  Splitter” opined that the water seemed a sufficient stimulant.]

  [Illustration: Mr. Lincoln’s favorite rocker.]

  [Illustration: Mrs. Lincoln’s sewing rocker.]

  [Illustration: When Mrs. Lincoln was entertaining friends, “Honest
  Abe” often retired to the kitchen where he stretched out on the floor
  to read a book or newspaper.]

  [Illustration: It was a cold January day when Lincoln journeyed from
  Springfield to this quaint little house near Charleston, Illinois, to
  visit for the last time with his beloved stepmother, before leaving
  for Washington and his inauguration.]

  [Illustration: While sitting before the glowing fireplace, Lincoln and
  his stepmother must have reminisced about those formidable days in the
  forests of Indiana and the first few years on the prairies of
  Illinois.]

  [Illustration: “How slowly, and yet by happily prepared steps, he came
  to his place,” said Emerson. This statue is in Chicago’s Lincoln Park.]

  [Illustration: At the dedication of the memorial and tomb to the Great
  Emancipator in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Illinois, Governor
  Richard Oglesby spoke these words: “And now under the gracious favor
  of Almighty God, I dedicate this monument to the memory of the obscure
  boy, the honest man, the illustrious statesman, the great liberator,
  and the martyr President Abraham Lincoln, and to the keeping of Time.”]




                          The LINCOLN COUNTRY:
                              IN PICTURES
                     _by Carl and Rosalie Frazier_


Perhaps no man in American history has been viewed with such respect and
reverence by the American people as has Abraham Lincoln. School children
and scholars alike have been moved by the humanity of his deeply lined
face, have marveled at his rise from poverty to the Presidency, have
sorrowed anew at the tragedy of his death, have read his words and been
unable to erase them from their memory. If there is one historic person
most of us would like to know, it is Abraham Lincoln.

Here—in these pages which recreate the world Lincoln knew as a child and
a young man—the reader can come close to Lincoln. In these fine
photographs, which carefully depict the familiar, everyday scenes of
young Abe’s manhood, he can see Lincoln’s world as Lincoln saw it. As
the authors say: “It was from this frontier atmosphere and these
frontier people that Lincoln acquired his uncanny understanding of how
common folk think and the wisdom that enabled him to hold in his hands
the ties that bound a people and made a nation.”

It is this atmosphere that the authors have captured in over 100
photographs, and it is the rhythm of frontier life that they have caught
in the factual simplicity of the text. Here is the farm in Kentucky
where Lincoln was born; here are reconstructed the smithy, the tavern,
the houses of New Salem, Illinois where Lincoln was a clerk, where he
studied law, where he was elected to the state legislature. Here is the
Springfield that Lincoln knew when he was first elected to Congress, the
town where his sons were born, where in 1860 he learned that he was a
candidate for the Presidency. This is Lincoln’s country. As the reader
follows Lincoln through the pages of this book, he will feel suddenly
close to the man who left such an indelible imprint on the history of
this nation—and upon its people.


CARL and ROSALIE FRAZIER live in Chicago, Illinois where they pursue
their professions as artists and photographers. Their knowledge of
Abraham Lincoln comes from their considerable and extensive research
into Lincoln’s life and their many pilgrimages to those places where he
lived in Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois.

The Fraziers became interested in trying to capture through the lenses
of their cameras that certain something which attracts visitors by the
thousands to the Lincoln shrines every year. They hope this picture book
will preserve, or at least refresh the memories of these observant
visitors, and bring to those who may never have this opportunity a
better mental picture of this benevolent man’s environment.


                      HASTINGS HOUSE  PUBLISHERS
                             _New York 22_

  [Illustration: The Rutledge Tavern where Abraham Lincoln often stayed.
  The well-worn ladder leads to his bed in the loft.]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


--Copyright notice provided as in the original—this e-text is public
  domain in the country of publication.

--Silently corrected palpable typos; left non-standard spellings and
  dialect unchanged.

--Moved some captions closer to the corresponding pictures.

--In the text versions, delimited italicized text by _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lincoln Country in Pictures, by 
Carl Frazier and Rosalie Frazier

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LINCOLN COUNTRY IN PICTURES ***

***** This file should be named 56210-0.txt or 56210-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/2/1/56210/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

